Develop v2.0.0 (#148)
megaease/easeagent: doc/matcher-DSL.md

# Matcher DSL
- [Overview](#Overview)
- [ClassMatcher](#ClassMatcher)
- [MethodMatcher](#MethodMatcher)

## Overview
EaseAgent provides a Matcher DSL (Domain Specific Language) to define a `Points` implementation which is used to defined classes and their methods to be enhanced. 

The design of this DSL is borrowed from bytebuddy's class and method matching DSL design. Why not use bytebuddy's DSL interface directly?

> - Decopule from bytebuddy, which is an excellent bytecode editing framework, but we still want to decouple the API interface from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Decouple from the ByteBuddy, Although the byteBuddy is an excellent bytecode framework, we provide dedicated DSL to developers via abstracting it, can easily migrate to a more excellent framework in the future.
```

- Provide a cleaner and easier to use API for Agent scenarios.

> 

Reviewer: Need an overview to descript how many matchers we have and what's the purpose of matchers. eg:

We have defined two matchers, there are `ClassMatcher` and `MethodMatcher`.

- The `ClassMatcher` is dedicated to ....
- The `MethodMatcher` is dedicated to ...

The following methods are common condition settings in class matching, 
```java
    ClassMatcherBuilder hasSuperClass(String className)
    ClassMatcherBuilder hasClassName(String className)
    ClassMatcherBuilder hasAnnotation(String className)
    ClassMatcherBuilder hasInterface(String className)

    ClassMatcherBuilder isPublic();
    ClassMatcherBuilder isPrivate();
    ClassMatcherBuilder isAbstract();
    ClassMatcherBuilder isInterface();

    ClassMatcherBuilder notPrivate();
    ClassMatcherBuilder notAbstract();
    ClassMatcherBuilder notInterface();
```

### Logical Operation
- Logical AND  
As mention above, each condition in a matcher is a combination of `logical AND`.
For example, the following ClassMatcher will match non-interface classes which inherit the `java.lang.String` **and** implements the `java.lang.Comparable` interface.
```java
    ClassMatcher.builder()
        .hasSuperClass("java.lang.String")
        .hasInterface("java.lang.Comparable")
        .notInterface()
        .bilder()

```

- Logical OR  
`ClassMatcherBuilder` provides `or()` method which will finish current builder and start a new `ClassMatcherBuilder`.

> The provious builder will generete a `Left ClassMatcher` and the new builder will generate a 'Right ClassMatcher'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous builder will generate a `Left ClassMatcher` and the new builder will generate a 'Right ClassMatcher'.
```

The `Left matcher` and `Right matcher` will be combined into one `OrClasssMatcher`, and a class will match as long as the `Left` or `Right` matcher is a match.
For example, the following ClassMatcher will match classes that implement the `javax.servlet.Filter` interface **or** inherit the "javax.servlet.http.HttpServlet" class.

```java
    public IClassMatcher getClassMatcher() {
        return ClassMatcher.builder()
            .hasInterface("javax.servlet.Filter")
            .or()
            .hasSuperClass("javax.servlet.http.HttpServlet")
            .build();
    }
```

- Logical NOT  

> The `negate()` method of `ClassMatcherBuilder` uses `NegateClassMatcher` to wrap the original matcher generated by builder when no such method is applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `negate()` method of `ClassMatcherBuilder` uses `NegateClassMatcher` to wrap the original matcher generated by the builder when no such method is applied.
```

> When a class matches the orignal matcher, it is unmatched by the wrap matcher; conversely, it is matched

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a class matches the original matcher, it is unmatched by the wrap matcher; conversely, it is matched
```

> 

Reviewer: Give an example here to describe how to use `negate()`

    MethodMatcherBuilder isAbstract();
    MethodMatcherBuilder isStatic();

    MethodMatcherBuilder notPublic();
    MethodMatcherBuilder notPrivate();
    MethodMatcherBuilder notAbstract();
    MethodMatcherBuilder notStatic();

    MethodMatcherBuilder returnType(String returnType);

    // setup method arguments condition
    MethodMatcherBuilder arg(int idx, String argType);
    MethodMatcherBuilder argsLength(int length);

    // setup method matcher name
    MethodMatcherBuilder qualifier(String qualifier);

    // only match methods overrided from matched classed through cMatcher
    MethodMatcherBuilder isOverriddenFrom(IClassMatcher cMatcher);
```

### Logical Operation
- Logical AND  
As mention above, each condition in a matcher is a combination of `logical AND`.
For example, the following MethodMatcher will match the method which named `getConnection` and with a return type of `java.sql.Connection`.
```java
    MethodMatcher.builder()
        .named("getConnection")
        .returnType("java.sql.Connection")
        .build())

```

In additon, `MethodMatcherBuilder` provides `and()` method which will finish current builder and start a new `MethodMatcherBuilder`.

> The provious builder will generete a `Left MethodMatcher` and the new builder will generate a 'Right MethodMatcher'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous builder will generate a `Left MethodMatcher` and the new builder will generate a 'Right MethodMatcher'.
```

The `Left matcher` and `Right matcher` will be combined into one `AndMethodMatcher`, and a method will match as long as the `Left` or `Right` matcher is a match.

For example, the following matcher will match public methods that named `write` and exclude that with `void` return type.
```java
    MethodMatcher.builder()
        .named("write")
        .argsLength(1)
        .isPublic()
        .and()
        .returnType("void")
        .negate()
        .build()
```

- Logical OR  
`MethodMatcherBuilder` provides `or()` method which will finish current builder and start a new `MethodMatcherBuilder`.

> The provious builder will generete a `Left MethodMatcher` and the new builder will generate a 'Right MethodMatcher'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous builder will generate a `Left MethodMatcher` and the new builder will generate a 'Right MethodMatcher'.
```
